Black Tea
Many people new to the world of tea are most familiar with black tea. You can find black tea in name-brand teabags
at the grocery store like Lipton or Tetley. Popular breakfast blends like English Breakfast and Irish Breakfast
are other examples of black tea. Black teas tend to be relatively high in caffeine, with about half as much
caffeine as a cup of coffee. They brew up a dark, coppery color, and usually have a stronger, more robust flavor
than other types of tea.

How Black Tea is Made
To produce black tea, tea leaves are harvested, wilted, and then lightly crushed. Some types of black tea,
such as Irish Breakfast, are broken up into even smaller pieces using a method known as crush-tear-curl, or CTC.
The tea leaves are then fully oxidized, which turns them a brownish-black color.

Where Black Tea is From
Black tea is primarily produced in China and India. Other up-and-coming tea-producing countries that export
black tea include Sri Lanka, Nepal, Vietnam, and Kenya. In general, Indian black teas tend to be stronger
and more robust, and are often used in hearty breakfast blends that stand up well to the addition of
milk and sweetener. Many types of Indian black tea are categorized using a special system of tea grading
in order to denote their quality.

Chinese black teas tend to be lighter and mellower, and are usually consumed on their own without the
addition of milk or sweetener. They often contain slightly less caffeine than Indian black teas.
Popular Chinese black teas include China Keemun and Golden Yunnan.
end
Green Tea
Green tea is another type of tea made from the camellia sinensis plant. Green teas often brew up a
light green or yellow color, and tend to have a lighter body and milder taste. They contain about
half as much caffeine as black tea (about a quarter that of a cup of coffee.) Popular green teas
include Gunpowder, Jasmine Yin Cloud, and Moroccan Mint.

How Green Tea is Made
Green tea is harvested and then immediately either steamed or pan-fired in order to halt the
oxidation process. Stopping oxidation soon after harvest is what gives green tea leaves their bright
green color and their light, vegetal taste. The tea leaves are then rolled or pressed into their final
shape and dried.

Where Green Tea is From
Green tea is primarily produced in China and Japan. Japanese green teas are steamed soon after harvest
in order to halt oxidation. They tend to have a slightly savory, oceanic quality, and brew up a light
emerald green. Japanese teas are sometimes also shaded for several weeks prior to harvest, which
increases their levels of chlorophyll, caffeine, and l-theanine. Popular Japanese green teas include
Sencha, Kukicha, and Gyokuro.

Chinese green teas are usually pan-fired after harvest in order to stop the oxidation process.
These teas tend to be milder than Japanese green teas, and brew up a soft golden color, with a light
body and a mellow flavor. Popular Chinese green teas include Dragon Well, Gunpowder, and Chun Mee.
end
Oolong Tea
Oolong is a partially oxidized tea, placing it somewhere in between black and green teas in terms
of oxidation. Oolong teas can range from around 10-80% oxidation, and can brew up anywhere from a
pale yellow to a rich amber cup of tea. Many oolongs can be re-infused many times, with subtle
differences and nuances of flavor in each successive cup.

How Oolong Tea is Made
Many types of oolong teas, such as Milk Oolong, are grown from special varietals of the tea plant
cultivated for many years in order to impart unique flavors to the tea. Oolong teas are harvested,
wilted, and then undergo partial oxidation. Depending on the type of oolong, they may be oxidized
for only a short period of time, or may undergo more thorough oxidation almost to the level of a
black tea. Some oolong teas are then shaped by hand into small, tightly rolled balls before being
dried and packaged.

Where Oolong Tea is From
Oolong teas are primarily produced in China and Taiwan. In China, oolong-producing regions include
the Wuyi Mountains and Anxi, both in Fujian province, and Guangdong province. In Taiwan, a small island
off of mainland China, is famed for its specialty oolongs, including the highly sought after Milk Oolong.
end
White Tea
White tea is a delicate, minimally processed tea that is highly sought after by connoisseurs and
enjoyed by experts and novices alike. White tea has a light body and a mild flavor with a crisp,
clean finish. White tea tends to be very low in caffeine, although some silver tip teas may be
slightly higher in caffeine. Popular white teas include Bashan Silver Tip and White Peony.

How White Tea is Made
White tea is minimally processed before being dried and packaged. In some cases, as with silver tip
and silver needle teas, white tea is harvested from the very first tips and buds of the tea plant,
before they open to form full leaves. Other white teas, like White Peony, are harvested after the
leaves unfurl and grow. In both cases, white teas experience minimal amounts of oxidation.

Where White Tea is From
White tea is primarily produced in China, particularly in the Fujian province, where it has a rich
history. Some specialty white teas are also produced in counties like Nepal, Taiwan, and Sri Lanka.
end
Pu-erh
Pu-erh tea is an aged, partially fermented tea that is similar to black tea in character. Pu-erh
teas brew up an inky brown-black color and have a full body with a rich, earthy, and deeply
satisfying taste. Pu-erh teas are fairly high in caffeine, containing about the same amount as black
tea (half that of a cup of coffee.)

How Pu-erh Tea is Made
Pu-erh is initially processed in a way similar to green tea. Leaves are harvested, steamed or
pan-fired to halt oxidation, and then shaped and dried. After the leaves dry, they then undergo a
fermentation process. Sheng pu-erh is produced using a traditional method, where tea leaves are aged
using a longer and more gradual process. Shou pu-erh is produced using a modern, accelerated
fermentation method. Both types of pu-erh are often aged for several years, as the rich and earthy
flavors of the tea often improve over time.

Where Pu-erh Tea is From
Pu-erh originated in the city of Pu-erh in the Yunnan province of China, and is still primarily
produced in the same region today. Like other types of specialty foods, such as champagne or parmesan,
only teas produced in Yunnan province can officially be called pu-erh. However, other provinces
including Hunan and Guangdong provinces also produced similar aged teas.
end
Purple Tea
Purple tea is a relatively new kind of tea, and has only been commercially available for a few years.
The tea is produced from a rare purple-leaved tea plant found growing wild in the Assam region of India.
Today, purple teas are primarily produced in Kenya, Africa. They have a light body and mellow flavor,
and are extremely low in caffeine and high in antioxidants and anthocyanins.

How Purple Tea is Made
Purple tea is usually produced in a manner similar to oolong teas. The leaves are harvested, wilted,
and undergo partial oxidation before being shaped and dried. When brewed, purple tea brews up a light
reddish-purple, thanks to the unique color of its leaves.

Where Purple Tea is From
Purple tea was originally found growing wild in the Assam region of India. After their initial discovery,
these unique tea plants were later taken to Kenya, where the Tea Research Foundation of Kenya worked to
create a cultivar that would be ideal for commercial tea production. The third-largest producer of
commercial tea after China and India, Kenya now leads as the largest producer of purple tea.
end
Herbal Tea
Although we colloquially call herbal teas tea, they are not actually related to true teas made from
the camellia sinensis plant. Instead, herbal teas are composed of a blend of different herbs and spices.
In general, herbal teas contain no caffeine. There are a wide variety of different kinds of herbal teas,
including both single-ingredient teas like Peppermint and Chamomile, as well as creative blends like
Lavender Lullaby and Atomic Gold.

Herbal teas are also sometimes called herbal infusions or tisanes. Popular herbal tea ingredients
include peppermint, chamomile, hibiscus, ginger, lavender, and more. Herbal blends often have medicinal
properties, and depending on the blend can be used to treat everything from sore throats to upset stomachs.
end